---
permalink: /
#title: "Academic Pages is a ready-to-fork GitHub Pages template for academic personal websites"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am interested in the fundamental and applied aspects of separation and recycle of critical metal resources as well as removing hazardous heavy-metal ions from the industrial wastewater. Combined application of interface-selective techniques (non-linear vibrational spectroscopy, X-ray liquid surface scattering), and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to obtain the fundamental insights underlying the chemical separation processes in my research. The knowledge obtained from the fundamental research provides new ideas for the development of novel extraction and separation methods applied not only to recover the critical elements from ores or electronic waste, but also remove the toxic heavy metal ions from the industrial wastewater. For example, the separation of vanadium(V) and chromium(VI) from the vanadium–titanium magnetite ores, the recycle of rare earths from spent NdFeB magnetic, the separation of adjacent rare earths Pr/Nd and adsorption/light-induce reduction of toxic hexavalent chromium from the industrial wastewater. 

During postdoc research in ChemMatCARS at the Advanced Photon Source, I have become deeply interested in using liquid interface X-ray scattering to probe interfacial processes relevant to chemical separations and nanoparticle phenomena. I used X ray reflectivity and grazing incidence X ray diffraction to probe the role of free ligands in the organization of nanoparticles at liquid surfaces. In an ongoing project related to solvent extraction of rare earth, I revealed the important and antagonistic role played by ion-extractant complexation within the aqueous phase and helps to clarify the route of extractant assisted ion transport during liquid/liquid solvent extraction processes. The conclusion of this work has been extended to transition metal ions recently after the continuous research on the behavior of Fe/Co/Ni. In the most recent work, I revealed a X-ray tunable rare earth adsorption behavior, which can provide new insight to enhance the separation of rare earth.

The current research project at the University of Illinois at Chicago, I’m focusing on the binding of rare earth ions by peptide at the interface. The purpose of this project is to understand the interaction of peptide with rare earth ions at the interface, develop new green and sustainable separation method to recover rare earth ions. Besides, I also discover a tunable adsorption-desorption of rare earth ions at interface controlled by X ray exposure. It provides new ideas to regulate the adsorption selectivity of rare earth ions and enhance the separation efficiency.

I have also built a good collaboration relationship with other research groups including Argonne National Laboratory, University of Warwick, City University of Hong Kong, Singapore University of Technology and Design. My molecular dynamics simulation works help them to get a molecular level understanding into the mechanism underlie their research topic and facilitate the development of new photo-sensitizing nanozymes, oil-water separation membrane, novel aqueous zinc battery and lithium-sulfur battery.

PLANS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH                                      
My plans for future research will continue focus on the fundamental and applied separation chemistry of critical elements and environmental engineering of heavy metal removal by liquid/liquid solvent extraction as well as solid/liquid adsorption. The project aims at understanding the mechanism of ionic transport across the liquid/liquid or solid/liquid interface, enhancing the efficiency/selectivity of ions, and designing novel efficient separation processes. Based on the fundamental insights, novel extraction and separation systems will be developed to separate and recover critical elements from mineral resources, waste streams and urban E-waste. It will contribute to advancing sustainable energy systems, reducing carbon emissions and environmental remediation. 

